README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/LDMW/app.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/LDMW/app)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/ldmw/app/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/ldmw/app)
[![Deps Status](https://beta.hexfaktor.org/badge/all/github/LDMW/app.svg)](https://beta.hexfaktor.org/github/LDMW/app)

# app

Built using the _PETE_ stack [`Phoenix`, `Elixir`](http://www.phoenixframework.org/), [`Tachyons`](http://tachyons.io/), and [`Elm`](http://elm-lang.org/)

This project works in tandem with the lmdw cms, for the admin section of the project see: https://github.com/ldmw/cms

### Project Overview

![ldmw-application-architecture-diagram](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/194400/25229096/cd075eb6-25c6-11e7-8233-5712d55a20fe.png)

Click on image to see large version.
To edit: https://docs.google.com/drawings/d/1NX710eQ_1fJgxctvF3--KOO4S-m-_lOouWg1V_lPtXY

### Project Design

See: zpl.io/ZDwoAh

<img src="https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/16775804/25523681/8262a5d4-2bff-11e7-8023-cd9ba51e6d99.png" />
<img src="https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/16775804/25523711/a48659d0-2bff-11e7-8391-93f402894bdb.png" />
<img src="https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/16775804/25523736/c2ecb324-2bff-11e7-87ce-647ee45e152b.png" />

### Installation and Setup

To get up and running - make sure you have installed:

+ [`node.js`](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) (v6.9)
+ [`elixir`](http://elixir-lang.org/install.html) (1.4)
+ [`phoenix`](http://www.phoenixframework.org/docs/installation) (1.3)
+ [`elm`](https://guide.elm-lang.org/install.html) (0.18)
+ [`postgres`](https://www.postgresql.org/download/) (9.6)

#### Setup

Ensure to have the following environement variables in your path:
```bash
export GOOGLE_SHEET_URL_EMAIL=<google_sheet_url_email>
export GOOGLE_SHEET_URL_SUGGESTION=<google_sheet_url_suggestion>
```

See the google drive for these

Clone the repository and cd into it (make sure you don't have another project called `app`):

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ldmw/app.git && cd app
```

(Ensure postgres is running with: `postgres -D /usr/local/var/postgres/`)

Go into the app directory

```bash
cd app
```

Install the dependencies:

```elixir
mix deps.get
```

Set up the database:

```elixir
mix do ecto.create, ecto.migrate
```

Start the server

```elixir
mix phoenix.server
```

(For information on any of these commands run `mix help <command>`)

The project should now be running at `https://localhost:4000`

If you get the error:

```bash
ERROR 42501 (insufficient_privilege): permission denied for relation wagtailcore_page
```

You will need to grant access to the user "postgres"

To do so try running this command:
```bash
$ psql -d cms -c "grant all privileges on all tables in schema public to postgres"
```

And try starting the server again

If you get the error:

```bash
column articles_articlepage.heading does not exist
LINE 1: ...reated_at", "articles_articlepage"."page_ptr_id", "articles_...
```

You can fix this with:

```bash
$ psql -d cms -c "alter table articles_articlepage add column heading varchar not null default ''"
```

#### Password

The site is currently password protected. To add the user on your local version, run `export ADMIN_PASSWORD="whatever you want your password to be" && mix run priv/repo/seeds.exs`. YOu can then log in with the user `ldmw` and your password.

### Local testing

Ensure that your have the most up to date `dumpdata.json` file from the dumpdata branch on the cms repo

To do so, ensure you are on the `dumpdata` branch and `git pull origin dumpdata`

Then run:
```bash
python manage.py loaddata dumpdata.json
```

### Deployment

The app is set to automatically push from the master branch to the staging area (https://ldmw-app-staging.herokuapp.com/). When we're happy this is working, we will push manually to the production site.

To deploy to the production site, make sure both the app and cms repos are in the same directory on your machine, then, from this directory (app), run `./deploy.sh {branch-you-want-to-deploy}`, for example, if you wanted to deploy a branch called `latest`, you would run `./deploy.sh latest`. If you don't include a branch in the command, it will deploy your master branch.

### CMS

The documentation for the CMS (Creating pages, tags etc) can be found at https://github.com/LDMW/cms#cms

### Analytics

We are using Google Analytics and Google Tag Manager to track user actions on the site. We are currently tracking:
* Page views
* Clicks on the 'Take assessment' button
* Clicks on the 'share' button on resources

Commit message:

updating readme for new google sheets development setup #204

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/LDMW/app.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/LDMW/app)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/ldmw/app/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/ldmw/app)
[![Deps Status](https://beta.hexfaktor.org/badge/all/github/LDMW/app.svg)](https://beta.hexfaktor.org/github/LDMW/app)

# app

Built using the _PETE_ stack [`Phoenix`, `Elixir`](http://www.phoenixframework.org/), [`Tachyons`](http://tachyons.io/), and [`Elm`](http://elm-lang.org/)

This project works in tandem with the lmdw cms, for the admin section of the project see: https://github.com/ldmw/cms

### Project Overview

![ldmw-application-architecture-diagram](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/194400/25229096/cd075eb6-25c6-11e7-8233-5712d55a20fe.png)

Click on image to see large version.
To edit: https://docs.google.com/drawings/d/1NX710eQ_1fJgxctvF3--KOO4S-m-_lOouWg1V_lPtXY

### Project Design

See: zpl.io/ZDwoAh

<img src="https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/16775804/25523681/8262a5d4-2bff-11e7-8023-cd9ba51e6d99.png" />
<img src="https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/16775804/25523711/a48659d0-2bff-11e7-8391-93f402894bdb.png" />
<img src="https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/16775804/25523736/c2ecb324-2bff-11e7-87ce-647ee45e152b.png" />

### Installation and Setup

To get up and running - make sure you have installed:

+ [`node.js`](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) (v6.9)
+ [`elixir`](http://elixir-lang.org/install.html) (1.4)
+ [`phoenix`](http://www.phoenixframework.org/docs/installation) (1.3)
+ [`elm`](https://guide.elm-lang.org/install.html) (0.18)
+ [`postgres`](https://www.postgresql.org/download/) (9.6)

#### Setup

Ensure to have the following environement variables in your path:
```bash
export GOOGLE_SHEET_URL=<google_sheet_url_email>
```

See the google drive for these

Clone the repository and cd into it (make sure you don't have another project called `app`):

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ldmw/app.git && cd app
```

(Ensure postgres is running with: `postgres -D /usr/local/var/postgres/`)

Go into the app directory

```bash
cd app
```

Install the dependencies:

```elixir
mix deps.get
```

Set up the database:

```elixir
mix do ecto.create, ecto.migrate
```

Start the server

```elixir
mix phoenix.server
```

(For information on any of these commands run `mix help <command>`)

The project should now be running at `https://localhost:4000`

If you get the error:

```bash
ERROR 42501 (insufficient_privilege): permission denied for relation wagtailcore_page
```

You will need to grant access to the user "postgres"

To do so try running this command:
```bash
$ psql -d cms -c "grant all privileges on all tables in schema public to postgres"
```

And try starting the server again

If you get the error:

```bash
column articles_articlepage.heading does not exist
LINE 1: ...reated_at", "articles_articlepage"."page_ptr_id", "articles_...
```

You can fix this with:

```bash
$ psql -d cms -c "alter table articles_articlepage add column heading varchar not null default ''"
```

#### Password

The site is currently password protected. To add the user on your local version, run `export ADMIN_PASSWORD="whatever you want your password to be" && mix run priv/repo/seeds.exs`. YOu can then log in with the user `ldmw` and your password.

### Local testing

Ensure that your have the most up to date `dumpdata.json` file from the dumpdata branch on the cms repo

To do so, ensure you are on the `dumpdata` branch and `git pull origin dumpdata`

Then run:
```bash
python manage.py loaddata dumpdata.json
```

### Deployment

The app is set to automatically push from the master branch to the staging area (https://ldmw-app-staging.herokuapp.com/). When we're happy this is working, we will push manually to the production site.

To deploy to the production site, make sure both the app and cms repos are in the same directory on your machine, then, from this directory (app), run `./deploy.sh {branch-you-want-to-deploy}`, for example, if you wanted to deploy a branch called `latest`, you would run `./deploy.sh latest`. If you don't include a branch in the command, it will deploy your master branch.

### CMS

The documentation for the CMS (Creating pages, tags etc) can be found at https://github.com/LDMW/cms#cms

### Analytics

We are using Google Analytics and Google Tag Manager to track user actions on the site. We are currently tracking:
* Page views
* Clicks on the 'Take assessment' button
* Clicks on the 'share' button on resources

### Google sheets
We are using google sheets for quick easy storage of feedback collected
We have opted for a single spreadsheet with multiple tabs as multiple spreadsheets would be less manageable for both developer and client
(Granting privaleges for each one going between different files, etc) 

We have opted for using [Better Logger](https://github.com/peterherrmann/BetterLog) so that we can see logged outputs for debugging

When running the app locally, ensure you are using the development `GOOGLE_SHEET_URL` environment variable not the production one
(See google drive for this)
